'\" t
.TH RDUP 1 "24 Dec 2005" "1.1.14" "rdup"
.SH NAME
rdup-simple \- create a hardlinked backup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rdup-simple
[\fI\+DAYS\fR]
-[\fI\-P CMD\fR]...
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
\fIFILELIST\fR
[\fIDIR/FILE]...\fR
DESTINATION

.SH DESCRIPTION
rdup-simple is a frontend for 'rdup-snap' and 'rdup'. It will backup all directories and files given on the command line. It will
create a hard linked backup directory, where the backup is created.
With the optional +DAYS argument you can specify how far backup rdup-simple looks back for previous backups. This should be a
number in the range 1..99. It defaults to 8 days.

rdup-simple will create the directory '~/.rdup' and will store its administrative files there. This program does not need to be
run with root permissions.

The last argument of rdup-simple is used as the destination; the following destinations are supported:

ssh:///user@host/directory
Use 'ssh' as a protocol and 'user' as the remote user name. Store the backup in 'directory' on the remote server 'host'.
ssh://host/directory
Use 'ssh' as a protocol and the current username as the remote user name. Store the backup in 'directory' on the remote server
'host'.
file:///directory
Use '/directory' to store the backup, 'file://' is optional. Note: there are 3 slashes here.
/directory
Use '/directory' to store the backup.
directory
Use 'directory' in the current directory for the backup.
Making a backup

Making a backup is as simple as:
rdup-simple ~ /adm /vol/backup/$HOSTNAME

~ and /adm are the directories to be backed up. Multiple directories or files are allowed on the command line.

The backup will be stored in '/vol/backup/$HOSTNAME'.

For the backup a YYYYMM directory is created. In this directory specific day-dumps are placed. So the first dump in October 2006,
will created in 200610/01 and the second in 200610/02, etc.

You can use incremental dumps for ever, there is no need to do a full dump every once in a while.

Note that rdup-simple calls rdup-snap-link. This small utility will actually hardlink copy the previous backup. The return value
of rdup-snap-link will determine if a full or incremental dump will be performed.

Remote backups

Note: for remote backups to work, the receiving machine must have rdup installed. Also note: there is no colon between the
hostname and the directory. Remote backup will create a pipeline of the form:
rdup -c DIR|FILE | ssh user@remotehost

rdup-shapshot -c -b backupdir

There is no provisioning for ssh so unless you have configured ssh to work without a passphrase you will be asked to supply one.
Also note that the PATH on the remote host should be set in such a way that all the rdup-util scripts can be found.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-P\fIcommand\fR
Filter all output through \fIcommand\fR, which is called via `sh -c command'.
Multiple \-P's can be used.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Miek Gieben. 

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <miek@miek.nl>. 

.SH SEE ALSO
http:/www.miek.nl/projects/rdup is the main site of rdup. Also see
rdup-tr(1), rdup-up(1) and rdup-backups(7).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 Miek Gieben. This is free software. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
.PP
Licensed under the GPL version 3. See the file LICENSE in the source distribution
of rdup.


rdup-simple [ +DAYS ] [ OPTIONS ] DIR|FILE [ DIR|FILE ] DESTINATION
Description

Options

-k keyfile Encrypt the files while backing up with keyfile. This option inserts rdup-crypt keyfile in the pipeline.
-a
Enable extended attributes. Write the uid/gid to the extended user attributes r_uid and r_gid.
-f
Force a full dump.
-x
See -x in rdup(8).
-z
Compress the files while backing up. This option inserts rdup-gzip in the pipeline.
-v
Echo the files processed to standard error.
-h
Show a short help message.
-V
Show the version.
See Also

rdup(8), rdup-snap-link(8) and rdup-snapshot(8). See rdup-backups(8) for examples and an introduction into making backups with
rdup.
